



Crypto Forum                                                 D. Connolly
Internet-Draft                                                 SandboxAQ
Intended status: Informational                          B. E. Westerbaan
Expires: 18 March 2025                                        Cloudflare
                                                                 B. Hale
                                               Naval Postgraduate School
                                                       14 September 2024


                Hybrid PQ/T Key Encapsulation Mechanisms
                   draft-irtf-cfrg-hybrid-kems-latest

Abstract

   TODO Abstract

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Crypto Forum Research
   Group mailing list (cfrg@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/cfrg.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-pq1.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 18 March 2025.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   We propose "Hybrid PQ/T Key Encapsulation Mechanisms", which will
   cover the following.

   (A) Identify which KEM security properties are IETF-relevant, and
   provide a terse overview of those security properties (eg.  IND-CCA,
   LEAK-BIND-K-PK, HON-BIND-K-CT, etc), as well as security properties
   unique to hybrid KEMs (component key material reuse between hybrid
   and non-hybrid uses or between multiple hybrids, one component is
   malicious while the other is honest, etc) with reference to
   literature, and put into context with real-world attacks.  From that,
   give guidance on a sensible baseline.

   (B) Provide a terse overview of well-reviewed techniques that are
   options to safely produce the concrete combinations in (C), and which
   security properties are achieved given those of the constituents.

   (C) Provide an initial number of explicit PQ/T hybrid KEMs using
   techniques from (B) that reach the baseline set in (A), in a separate
   document, and should include:

      (I)  a hybrid of P-256 and ML-KEM-768,
      (II)  a hybrid of X25519 and ML-KEM-768, and,
      (III) a hybrid of P-384 and ML-KEM-1024.

   These hybrids should be accompanied by pseudocode and test vectors.

   This list includes two options at the ~128-bit security level (due to
   current implementation/deployment trends) and one at a higher level.

   There is demand for other hybrid variants that either use different
   primitives (RSA, NTRU, Classic McEliece, FrodoKEM), parameters, or
   that use a combiner optimized for a specific use case.  The DT
   recommends the work outlined in (C) is done in a first document, and
   other use cases could be covered in subsequent documents.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Security Considerations

   IND-CCA, LEAK-BIND-K-PK, etc, as well as security properties unique
   to hybrid KEMs (component key material reuse between hybrid and non-
   hybrid uses or between multiple hybrids, one component is malicious
   while the other is honest, etc)

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   Deirdre Connolly
   SandboxAQ
   Email: durumcrustulum@gmail.com


   Bas Westerbaan
   Cloudflare
   Email: bas@cloudflare.com


   Britta Hale
   Naval Postgraduate School
   Email: britta.hale@nps.edu
